--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 IMGT/HLA Database
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This directory contains data for the IMGT/HLA database. The IMGT/HLA database is
a specialist sequence database for sequences of the human histocompatibility
complex. This directory contain the IMGT/HLA flat files and documentation. The
directory also contains the HLA sequences in a number of formats. Files are
provided for the nucleotide and protein sequences in either FASTA or PIR format.
MSF files are also provided of the sequence alignments. The MSF files are
suitable for use in the GeneDoc alignment program.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 CONTACTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For information on the IMGT/HLA Database please see the website at:
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/imgt/hla

Additional information on sequence file formats is available from:
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/imgt/hla/download.html

For any other information please contact hla@alleles.org.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 COPYRIGHT NOTICE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have chosen to apply the Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivs License to all
copyrightable parts of our databases, which includes the sequence alignments.
This means that you are free to copy, distribute, display and make commercial
use of the databases in all legislations, provided you give us credit by citing
the following;

Robinson J, Waller MJ, Parham P, de Groot N, Bontrop R, Kennedy LJ, Stoehr P,
Marsh SGE
IMGT/HLA and IMGT/MHC: sequence databases for the study of the major
histocompatibility complex
Nucleic Acids Research (2003), 31:311-314

Robinson J, Malik A, Parham P, Bodmer JG, Marsh SGE:
IMGT/HLA - a sequence database for the human major histocompatibility complex
Tissue Antigens (2000), 55:280-287

We are stongly opposed to the mirroring of the data contained on our sites, both
hla.alleles.org and the IMGT/HLA Database, and would ask that rather than mirror
the information, appropriate links are provided where applicable.

If you intend to distribute a modified version of our data, you must ask us for
permission first, please contact hla [at] alleles [dot] org for further details
of how modified data can be reproduced.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 FUNDING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The development of the IMGT/HLA Database was funded by an EU BIOTECH grant. The
work of maintaining and updating the database has been supported in the past by
the Imperial Cancer Research Fund, the National Institute of Health, the
National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) and more recently by the Anthony Nolan
Trust. The continual maintenace and any further development of the database
relies on alternate sources of financial support, which are actively been sought
for the continued maintenance of the database. The Sequence.org initiative at
the NMDP has solicited funds from institutions and companies who produce HLA
typing reagents, typing systems, and instrumentation or that otherwise utilise
these databases in critical components of their business. To learn more about
how your business can support the IMGT/HLA Database, please contact: Angie Dahl
(Tel: +1 612 884 8670, Email: adahl [at] nmdp [dot] org), The Marrow Foundation.

If you intend to use any of the data found on our sites for commercial use, we
would ask you to consider funding the database and the work we do. Without
continued funding the database cannot be maintained.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 DISCLAIMER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Where discrepancies have arisen between reported sequences and those stored in
the database, the original authors have been contacted where possible, and
necessary amendments to published sequences have been incorporated. Future
sequencing may identify errors and the WHO Nomenclature Committee would welcome
any evidence that helps to maintain the accuracy of the database. We therefore
make no warranties regarding the correctness of the data, and disclaim liability
for damages resulting from its use. We cannot provide unrestricted permission
regarding the use of the data, as some data may be covered by patents or other
rights. Any medical or genetic information is provided for research, educational
and informational purposes only. It is not in any way intended to be used as a
substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, treatment or care.

We reserve the right to use information about visitors (IP addresses), date/time
visited, page visited, referring website, etc. for site usage statistics and to
improve our services.
